# Debian

Buildkite Packages provides registry support for Debian-based (deb) packages for Debian and Ubuntu operating system variants.

Once your Debian registry has been [created](/docs/packages/manage-registries#create-a-registry), you can publish/upload packages (generated from your application's build) to this registry via the `curl` command presented on your Debian registry's details page.

To view and copy this `curl` command:

1. Select **Packages** in the global navigation to access the **Registries** page.
1. Select your Debian registry on this page.
1. Select **Publish a Debian Package** and in the resulting dialog, use the copy icon at the top-right of the code box to copy this curl command and submit it to publish a package to your Debian registry.

This command provides:

- The specific URL to publish a package to your specific Debian registry in Buildkite.
- The API write token (generated by Buildkite Packages) required to publish packages to your Debian registry.

## Publish a package

The following `curl` command (modified as required before submitting) describes the process above to publish a package to your Debian registry:

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.buildkite.com/api/v2/packages/organizations/{org.slug}/registries/{registry.name}/packages \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $REGISTRY_WRITE_TOKEN" \
  -F "file=@<path_to_file>"
```

where:

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/org_slug' %>

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/debian_registry_name' %>

- `$REGISTRY_WRITE_TOKEN` is your [API access token](https://buildkite.com/user/api-access-tokens) used to publish/upload packages to your Debian registry. Ensure this access token has the **Write Packages** REST API scope, which allows this token to publish packages to any registry your user account has access to within your Buildkite organization.

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/path_to_file' %>

For example, to upload the file `my-deb-package_1.0-2_amd64.deb` from the current directory to the **My-Debian-packages** registry in the **My organization** Buildkite organization, run the `curl` command:

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.buildkite.com/api/v2/packages/organizations/my-organization/registries/my-debian-packages/packages \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $REPLACE_WITH_MY_REGISTRY_WRITE_TOKEN" \
  -F "file=@my-deb-package_1.0-2_amd64.deb"
```

## Access a package's details

A Debian (deb) package's details can be accessed from this registry using the **Packages** section of your Debian registry page.

To access your deb package's details page:

1. Select **Packages** in the global navigation to access the **Registries** page.
1. Select your Debian registry on this page.
1. On your Debian registry page, select the package within the **Packages** section. The package's details page is displayed.

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/package_details_page_sections' %>

### Downloading a package

A Debian (deb) package can be downloaded from the package's details page.

To download a package:

1. [Access the package's details](#access-a-packages-details).
1. Select **Download**.

### Installing a package

A Debian package can be installed using code snippet details provided on the package's details page.

To install a package:

1. [Access the package's details](#access-a-packages-details).
1. Ensure the **Installation** > **Installation instructions** section is displayed.
1. Copy the set of commands in the code snippet, paste them into your terminal, and submit them.

This code snippet is based on this format:

```bash
apt update
type -p ca-certificates >/dev/null || apt install ca-certificates -y
echo -e "deb [trusted=yes] https://buildkite:{registry.read.token}@packages.buildkite.com/{org.slug}/{registry.name}/any/ any main\ndeb-src [trusted=yes] https://buildkite:{registry.read.token}@packages.buildkite.com/{org.slug}/{registry.name}/any/ any main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/buildkite-{org.slug}-{registry.name}.list
apt update && apt install jake
```

where:

- `{registry.read.token}` is your [API access token](https://buildkite.com/user/api-access-tokens) used to download packages from your Debian registry. Ensure this access token has the **Read Packages** REST API scope, which allows this token to download packages from any registry your user account has access to within your Buildkite organization. This URL component, along with its surrounding `buildkite:` and `@` components are not required for registries that are publicly accessible.

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/org_slug' %>

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/debian_registry_name' %>
