# Node.js

Buildkite Packages provides registry support for Node.js (npm) packages.

Once your JavaScript registry has been [created](/docs/packages/manage-registries#create-a-registry), you can publish/upload packages (generated from your application's build) to this registry by configuring your `~/.npmrc` and application's relevant `package.json` files with the command/code snippets presented on your JavaScript registry's details page.

To view and copy the required command/code snippet for your `~/.npmrc` and `package.json` configurations:

1. Select _Packages_ in the global navigation to access the _Repositories_ page.
1. Select your JavaScript registry on this page.
1. Select _Publish a Nodejs Package_ and in the resulting dialog, use the copy icon at the top-right of the relevant code box to copy its snippet and paste it into your command line tool or the appropriate file.

These file configurations contain the following:

- `~/.npmrc`: the URL for your specific JavaScript registry in Buildkite and API write token (generated by Buildkite Packages) required to publish the package to this registry
- `package.json`: the URL for your specific JavaScript registry in Buildkite.

## Publish a package

The following steps describe the process above:

1. Copy the following `npm` command, paste it and modify as required before submitting to update your `~/.npmrc` file:

    ```bash
    npm set "//buildkitepackages.com/{org.slug}/{registry.name}/npm/:_authToken" registry-write-token
    ```

    where:
    <%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/org_slug' %>
    <%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/javascript_registry_name_and_token' %>

    **Note:**
    * If your `.npmrc` file doesn't exist, this command will automatically create it for you.
    * This step only needs to be conducted once for the life of your JavaScript registry.

1.

## Access a package's details

### Downloading a package

### Installing a package

