# Python

Buildkite Packages provides registry support for Python-based (PyPI) packages.

Once your Python registry has been [created](/docs/packages/manage-registries#create-a-registry), you can publish/upload packages (generated from your application's build) to this registry via the `curl` command presented on your Python registry's details page.

To view and copy this `curl` command:

1. Select **Packages** in the global navigation to access the **Registries** page.
1. Select your Python registry on this page.
1. Select **Publish a Python Package** and in the resulting dialog, use the copy icon at the top-right of the code box to copy this `curl` command and submit it to publish a package to your Python registry.

This command provides:

- The specific URL to publish a package to your specific Python registry in Buildkite.
- The API write token (generated by Buildkite Packages) required to publish packages to your Python registry.

## Publish a package

The following `curl` command (modified as required before submitting) describes the process above to publish a package to your Python registry:

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.buildkite.com/v2/packages/organizations/{org.slug}/registries/{registry.slug}/packages \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $REGISTRY_WRITE_TOKEN" \
  -F "file=@<path_to_file>"
```

where:

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/org_slug' %>

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/python_registry_slug' %>

- `$REGISTRY_WRITE_TOKEN` is your [API access token](https://buildkite.com/user/api-access-tokens) used to publish/upload packages to your Python registry. Ensure this access token has the **Write Packages** REST API scope, which allows this token to publish packages to any registry your user account has access to within your Buildkite organization.

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/path_to_file' %>

For example, to upload the file `my-python-package-0.9.7b1.tar.gz` from the current directory to the **My-Python-packages** registry in the **My organization** Buildkite organization, run the `curl` command:

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.buildkite.com/v2/packages/organizations/my-organization/registries/my-python-packages/packages \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $REPLACE_WITH_MY_REGISTRY_WRITE_TOKEN" \
  -F "file=@my-python-package-0.9.7b1.tar.gz"
```

## Access a package's details

A Python package's details can be accessed from this registry using the **Packages** section of your Python registry page.

To access your Python package's details page:

1. Select **Packages** in the global navigation to access the **Registries** page.
1. Select your Python registry on this page.
1. On your Python registry page, select the package to display its details.

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/package_details_page_sections' %>

### Downloading a package

A Python package can be downloaded from the package's details page. To do this:

1. [Access the package's details](#access-a-packages-details).
1. Select **Download**.

### Installing a package

A Python package can be installed using code snippet details provided on the package's details page. To do this:

1. [Access the package's details](#access-a-packages-details).
1. Ensure the **Installation** > **Installation instructions** section is displayed.
1. Copy the relevant code snippet from the [**Registry Configuration**](#registry-configuration) section and paste it into either the package installer for Python (pip) configuration (`pip.conf`) file or end of the virtualenv `requirements.txt` file.
1. Run the installation command from the [**Package Installation**](#package-installation) section.

<h4 id="registry-configuration">Registry Configuration</h4>

The `pip.conf` code snippet is based on this format:

```conf
# Add this to the [global] section in your ~/.pip/pip.conf:
[global]
extra-index-url="https://buildkite:{registry.read.token}@packages.buildkite.com/{org.slug}/{registry.slug}/pypi/simple"
```

where:

- `{registry.read.token}` is your [API access token](https://buildkite.com/user/api-access-tokens) used to download packages from your Python registry. Ensure this access token has the **Read Packages** REST API scope, which allows this token to download packages from any registry your user account has access to within your Buildkite organization. This URL component, along with its surrounding `buildkite:` and `@` components are not required for registries that are publicly accessible.

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/org_slug' %>

<%= render_markdown partial: 'packages/python_registry_slug' %>

The alternative `requirements.txt` (for virtualenv) code snippet is based on this format:

```ini
# Otherwise if installing on a virtualenv, add this to the bottom of your requirements.txt:
--extra-index-url="https://buildkite:{registry.read.token}@packages.buildkite.com/{org.slug}/{registry.slug}/pypi/simple"
```

<h4 id="package-installation">Package Installation</h4>

Use `pip` to install the package:

```bash
pip install package-name==version-number
```

where:

- `package-name` is the name of your package.

- `version-numnber` is the version number of this package.
